Sign up
Sign in
Sign up
Sign in
Patty Alcivar
Follow
--
Listen
Share
On Labor Day- Monday, September 2, 2024, I was able to complete the iconic “Run to The Top of Mount Baldy” summitting Mount Baldy at 10,064 feet! It is a gnarly 7-mile technical trail run with over 4,000 feet elevation gain. Crossing the finish line and placing 8th Female Overall helped me have the confidence that I needed to know I had put in all the required training for the upcoming Fiery Flamingo Ultra on Saturday, September 7, 2024.
One week prior to the “Run to The Top of Mount Baldy” event, an acquaintance that had offered to pick me up from the airport and offered her family’s home for me to stay overnight, bailed on me due to an injury. I contacted the Race Director, Tracey Sulkin, and asked her for advice. Without any hesitation, she hooked me up with 2 wonderful race participants who drove me to the start of the event and back to the airport. She also stored my bags in a safe place during the event and also provided clear and concise directions to the race as well as other helpful tips that I was incredibly grateful for. Tracey is a primal example and definition of going above and beyond, especially as an event director.
Backtracking a bit, I ran my first ever Marathon at the age of 16 after the New York Road Runner’s President at the time, Alan Steinfeld granted me a free entry to the World Class event the year before when I told him my story. I had left an abusive home at the age of 15, and my dream was to run the NYC Marathon.
I trained for a full year, and crossing that finish line, the experience and lessons learned changed my life forever. I promised myself to run at least one marathon every year (but have run sometimes 3 or 4 during a year). I have kept my promise and have completed 42 marathons thus far.
I also became an Event Manager directing events for 7 years for the New York Road Runners and was able to appreciate being on the other side.
A few years ago, I started to run Ultra Marathons because I always wondered if my body and mind were capable of going further. To date, I have completed the NYRR 60k, The Petzl International Ultra, The Beast of Burden 50-miler, The Spartan Bear Mountain 50k, and the Prospect Park 50k. They were all very well organized, and I was excited to continue to improve and excel in these new distances.
This past January 2024, I participated in the Frozen Flamingo Ultra 50k in Kissena Park in Queens. The Race Director, David Drebsky, is a seasoned marathoner and ultra runner who was looking to start directing ultra marathons.
The Frozen Flamingo was a 2-mile loop with endless sharp turns where we had to brave running through ankle deep frozen water on each of the 15 loops. Some people cut the course and did their own thing, but overall, I was happy to finish the complete course and be close to home.
David promised to improve and bring a bigger and better event in the summer, which would be the Fiery Flamingo on Saturday, August 10, 2024, in Cummingham Park, also in Queens, NY.
I gave him the benefit of the doubt and signed up for the summer ultra event as I would again be close to home and did not have to spend money on travel expenses nor a sitter for my dog. I also wanted and needed the extra incentive to train throughout the next few months in order to also be in tip top climbing shape, so I signed up in February and paid the $120 fee via Ultra Signup.
I put in the weekly long runs throughout the brutal hot summer, and then 2 weeks prior to the event, David postponed the Fiery Flamingo Ultra from August 10th to September 7th, claiming issues with the park permit.
The event venue would now be changed to Alley Pond Park. Throughout the weeks, he kept springing on one change after the other via ridiculously long emails. The first event was scored electronically by EliteFeats, but this event was now going to be scored manually by one single person who had zero experience counting and scoring multiple laps.
The day before the event, David sent an email saying that for directions to the park to just put “Alley Pond Park” in your GPS. However, he failed to note that there are 2 Alley Pond Parks, one in Oakland Gardens and the other in Great Neck. There was a runner who went to Great Neck and was never even able to get to the start.
At the venue, David started making announcements past the scheduled start time, which was supposed to be at 7 a.m. Part of the surprise announcement was that he took away the 2nd aid station which he had previously mentioned would be available in all emails and on the event website. He said that for a field of 60 runners, it was not needed. He said there were 56 numbered orange cones throughout the course, and if we followed them and stayed to our left, we should be fine.
That immediately made me nervous as there was an 80 percent chance of rain, and the cones were numbered with taped paper signs. I silently hoped that he had at least spray painted the ground and/or also used streamers on the trees to clearly mark the course as anyone could move the cones out of the way since this entire course was open to the public.
The run started at 7:10 a.m. and within 10 minutes as we were running inside the trails, a large group that was leading was doubling back. “What is going on?” I asked. “We are lost! It’s not down that way, but there are no cones,” replied a guy from the lead group.
After going in 3 different directions, we found the correct numbered cone hidden behind a tree only to get lost again within 5 minutes and again and again. How does 100 percent of the field get lost multiple times within the first few minutes of a race? We even saw a race volunteer completely lost deep within the woods. Additionally, those trails were creepy, and I could not fathom running alone during the day and worse after sunset.
When I race, I excel by focusing on my own, but for this event, I stuck to a group that made a big difference in completing 3 full laps (18+ miles).
Within this group was Magda, a decorated distance runner and finisher of ten 100-mile races. There was also Julia and Aneta who were trying to complete their 1st ultra. Everyone tried to stay positive and make the best out of this nightmare, but each time we got lost, our morale sunk deeper and deeper.
As we started the 2nd loop, we saw a woman totally off course, and she said “Just go wherever your heart tells you to go.” We all managed to laugh. At the completion of the 2nd lap, we saw David in the food tent “smoking and joking” and he said “Oh you guys now have the course down packed!”
I was in disbelief of the nerve and egotistical demeanor from this guy, and I replied, “NO! We nor anyone has this down packed! Why aren’t you out there putting additional signage or spray painting at all in the critical points!” He smirked and ignored me.
As a now Event Consultant, I realize that things can and will go wrong and there is always the opportunity to make every effort to correct them. David made zero effort.
Going into the 3rd lap, I was physically and mentally drained from running the extra mileage and all the stress. Although I had signed up for the 100k, there wasn’t any chance I was going to be out past sunset, risking getting lost in these trails alone!
“I am going to ask to change to the 50k after this lap so at least this won’t be a complete waste,” I said out loud. Magda, another woman, and myself were the only 3 females signed up for the longer distance, and due to the crazy circumstances, we thought it would not be a problem.
We came through the check-in point after the 3rd lap, and I marched straight up to David and asked for me and Magda to be switched to the 50k. He smirked yet again and, without hesitation said “NO!”. I pleaded with him, and he tried to ignore me, but I made a scene that got everyone’s attention, and then he proceeded to say, “I’m pulling your Bib and giving you a DNF!”
I left, but I have been deeply disturbed and saddened by how a seasoned runner with such vast experience would take our money and organize such a half fast dangerous event. On top of that, he is a practicing attorney, and there was no medical presence, so if someone had a heart attack or fell ill, there would be no one .
I have always had the utmost respect for event organizers as I personally know the amount of work that goes into these events. I have met wonderful event directors, especially in the Ultra Running circuit. I sincerely hope that David Drebsky will not organize any other events and keep leaving runners with such a bad experience.
Lastly, I have never been good at staying silent and turning a blind eye at injustices and unfairness. I have and will always speak for those who can’t and I will stand up and do what is right.
--
--
On my own at 15. Mountaineer,ProBoxer,Runner, Writer,Dog Lover & New Yorker on a mission to Climb 7 World Summits. Follow Incredible journey @climbingforadream
Help
Status
About
Careers
Press
Blog
Privacy
Terms
Text to speech
Teams